README: California Current System Ecological Forecasts
================
Robert Wildermuth
2025-09-26

- [CCSEcolForecasts](#ccsecolforecasts)
  - [Climate-Informed Ecological Forecasts for the California Current
    System](#climate-informed-ecological-forecasts-for-the-california-current-system)
  - [Current support level](#current-support-level)
  - [Disclaimer](#disclaimer)
  - [Example workflow for testing an
    SDM](#example-workflow-for-testing-an-sdm)
  - [Example workflow for testing forecast
    skill](#example-workflow-for-testing-forecast-skill)

# CCSEcolForecasts

## Climate-Informed Ecological Forecasts for the California Current System

This work began as part of NOAA Fisheries’ Changing Ecosystems and
Fisheries Initiative (CEFI) and is a collaboration of code and modeling
among researchers at NOAA, University of California Santa Cruz and
Davis, and University of Washington.

Our **OBJECTIVE** is to produce a framework to evaluate and communicate
skill of forecast models that integrate ecological processes for use in
operational ecosystem-based fisheries management. The code in this
repository supports the production of species distribution models (SDMs)
with the intent of creating forecast products for three spatial case
study applications:

- An index of anchovy availability to support evaluations of California
  sea lion breeding success in the Southern California Bight (see
  [Fennie et al. 2023](https://doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2022.2326) for
  details)
- A habitat model of swordfish distribution based on West Coast drift
  gillnet fishery catches
- An index of risk of Pacific sardine bycatch in the Pacific mackerel
  fishery

Our **AIMS** are to: - Assess the forecast skill of SDMs using NOAA’s
Physical Sciences Laboratory MOM6 and other oceanographic products -
Create a generalized skill assessment framework for use within the West
Coast CEFI Decision Support Team and beyond - Communicate confidence in
forecast model products at various spatiotemporal scales

## Current support level

This repository is under active development and functionality of certain
functions and code is not guaranteed. Package development and testing is
planned for 2025-2026, with a goal of providing a package for producing
SDM products, evaluating diagnostics, and testing forecast performance
in a consistent and reproducible way within the California Current
System.

If you are interested in collaborating with our team, please open an
issue in the repository or contact Robert Wildermuth at the Southwest
Fisheries Science Center to learn more.

## Disclaimer

This repository is a scientific product and is not official
communication of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or
the United States Department of Commerce. All NOAA GitHub project code
is provided on an ‘as is’ basis and the user assumes responsibility for
its use. Any claims against the Department of Commerce or Department of
Commerce bureaus stemming from the use of this GitHub project will be
governed by all applicable Federal law. Any reference to specific
commercial products, processes, or services by service mark, trademark,
manufacturer, or otherwise, does not constitute or imply their
endorsement, recommendation or favoring by the Department of Commerce.
The Department of Commerce seal and logo, or the seal and logo of a DOC
bureau, shall not be used in any manner to imply endorsement of any
commercial product or activity by DOC or the United States Government.

## Example workflow for testing an SDM

## Example workflow for testing forecast skill
